ASILOMAR AI PRINCIPLES
======================

The 23 Asilomar AI Principles were developed in conjunction with the 2017 Asilomar 
conference, through the process of iterating on the results of discussions at 
that conference and related conferences on AI safety and AI ethics.

RESEARCH ISSUES

1. Research Goal: The goal of AI research should be to create not undirected 
intelligence, but beneficial intelligence.

2. Research Funding: Investments in AI should be accompanied by funding for 
research on ensuring its beneficial use, including thorny questions in computer 
science, economics, law, ethics, and social studies, such as:
   - How can we make future AI systems highly robust, so that they do what we 
     want without malfunctioning or getting hacked?
   - How can we grow our prosperity through automation while maintaining people's 
     resources and purpose?
   - How can we update our legal systems to be more fair and efficient, to keep 
     pace with AI, and to manage the risks associated with AI?
   - What set of values should AI be aligned with, and what legal and ethical 
     status should it have?

3. Science-Policy Link: There should be constructive and healthy exchange between 
AI researchers and policy-makers.

4. Research Culture: A culture of cooperation, trust, and transparency should be 
fostered among researchers and developers of AI.

5. Race Avoidance: Teams developing AI systems should actively cooperate to avoid 
corner-cutting on safety standards.

ETHICS AND VALUES

6. Safety: AI systems should be safe and secure throughout their operational 
lifetime, and verifiably so where applicable and feasible.

7. Failure Transparency: If an AI system causes harm, it should be possible to 
ascertain why.

8. Judicial Transparency: Any involvement by an autonomous system in judicial 
decision-making should provide a satisfactory explanation auditable by a competent 
human authority.

9. Responsibility: Designers and builders of advanced AI systems are stakeholders 
in the moral implications of their use, misuse, and actions, with a responsibility 
and opportunity to shape those implications.

10. Value Alignment: Highly autonomous AI systems should be designed so that 
their goals and behaviors can be assured to align with human values throughout 
their operation.

11. Human Values: AI systems should be designed and operated so as to be compatible 
with ideals of human dignity, rights, freedoms, and cultural diversity.

12. Personal Privacy: People should have the right to access, manage and control 
the data they generate, given AI systems' power to analyze and utilize that data.

13. Liberty and Privacy: The application of AI to personal data must not 
unreasonably curtail people's real or perceived liberty.

14. Shared Benefit: AI technologies should benefit and empower as many people as 
possible.

15. Shared Prosperity: The economic prosperity created by AI should be shared 
broadly, to benefit all of humanity.

16. Human Control: Humans should choose how and whether to delegate decisions to 
AI systems, to accomplish human-chosen objectives.

17. Non-subversion: The power conferred by control of highly advanced AI systems 
should respect and improve, rather than subvert, the social and civic processes 
on which the health of society depends.

18. AI Arms Race: An arms race in lethal autonomous weapons should be avoided.

LONGER-TERM ISSUES

19. Capability Caution: There being no consensus, we should avoid strong 
assumptions regarding upper limits on future AI capabilities.

20. Importance: Advanced AI could represent a profound change in the history of 
life on Earth, and should be planned for and managed with commensurate care and 
resources.

21. Risks: Risks posed by AI systems, especially catastrophic or existential 
risks, must be subject to planning and mitigation efforts commensurate with their 
expected impact.

22. Recursive Self-Improvement: AI systems designed to recursively self-improve or 
self-replicate in a manner that could lead to rapidly increasing quality or 
quantity must be subject to strict safety and control measures.

23. Common Good: Superintelligence should only be developed in the service of 
widely shared ethical ideals, and for the benefit of all humanity rather than one 
state or organization.

---

These principles were developed by the Future of Life Institute in collaboration 
with AI researchers and experts from around the world.

For more information, visit: https://futureoflife.org/ai-principles/
